+++
title = "#1"
date = 2024-03-12
+++

I haven’t used this space in a while. I tend to pick different spaces to hold my thoughts depending on the season. In the winter, my words hung in the air as songs. It’s warmer now but still decidedly winter in my head — I don’t know when I’ll accept that it’s spring — maybe when the warmth and flowers and birds slap me in the face with their life. But now is the perfect opportunity to prepare the next spot for my thoughts. And this could be it. Probably won’t be statistically. It could also be one of the notebooks someone was giving away at Garman.

I think I know a lot of people who have this quality, call it X. And then there are also people I know who don’t have this quality. From a set theoretic perspective, we would say the predicate X partitions the set of people I know. This is an utterly useless statement.

Key note. This quality is necessarily a predicate, as it’s boolean (another useless way to say true or false).

Maybe there was a time when X wasn’t a boolean. Possibly before higher order social dynamics developed. The state of affairs now is that you can’t have a little bit of X. If you don’t have X, you don’t have X — but if you have a little X, you have all of X. You are X.

To use modern terms, it’s sort of an emergent phenomenon, entropically favorable, self-propagating. It’s unclear how people acquire their first quanta of X, but once they do — you get it.

It’s sort of like a state space representation of a differential system. It’s clear that once you have this many deer and this many wolves — of course, they’ll reach this equilibrium of wolves happily eating deer and deer happily making babies — but why are there deer and wolves here in the first place?

How did deer-number-one start the race of deer if there was a wolf standing by to eat him?

The answer is that our graph of deer and wolf populations wasn’t designed to answer this question. We need a different graph, or maybe a religious text, or a really good Scratch program.

I like to say that the graph of deer and wolves is like a very coherent and well-built gazebo floating in the absolute abyss. In fact, physics is kind of like a collection of ornate and well-funded gazebos floating in just the darkest void imaginable. If you find yourself hanging out on any of these gazebos, it will prove very impossible to make it to any of the others. Physicists would love to build a rope bridge, or better yet a teleportation device, between these structures, but that’s hard.

I guess I was talking about X — I’m not sure its even worth thinking about anymore. In short, some people have X, some people don’t, the people with X are probably screwed. I’m probably screwed, or not.