+++
title = "#2"
date = 2024-03-13
+++

I am graduating very soon. I’ve heard a few people talk about graduating but the chatter seems subdued. I know quite a few people embarking on programs (doctorates, Peace Corps, Fulbright), but they also don’t know what graduation means. Some people are pursuing these programs to delay the unknown, some are just very happy to study physics indefinitely, which is a nice quality.

I guess the conclusion of graduation should be implied by the antecedent of my life but it seemingly isn’t. Well if my life had an antecedent it would be solving problems and puzzles on paper with my friends, optionally paired with building objects based on our findings. This has been a very nice antecedent but also one that implies a range of things like forex trading, Facebook developing, deep sea welding, and vagrancy.

It’s very exciting because it allows me to do a lot of different things but also offers little guidance. I have fairly large ambitions to manifest (a thing) that would have helped me, my family, friends, if it had existed. So the plan is whittled down to manifesting (making) a thing (experience, idea, object, artifact, monument) that could cause some people to have (marginally, massively) better lives.

I would love to do this by making a physical object but for now I think it should be a digital one. A good digital object can sometimes serve as a proof of concept for a physical one.

A lot of making good things is having enough of yourself available to put into that thing. I definitely don’t have much of myself available right now for that — I will have more over spring break.

When I produced my great works, such as a Chrome Extension themed around a children’s video game, I left some of myself in the creation. It’s really like sex in a way.

The trick with building new technology is that it often backfires and makes us worse off. I would like to think there are some indisputably good technologies but even those I can argue against. Refrigerators. Are they good? Maybe. If I had a root cellar and only ate cured meats and resoaked legumes, would I be happier (and potentially healthier)? It’s very possible. Is any technology really necessary? I think books are really good. Writing is really good. Probably indisputably. Clothes are good.

Is the Internet good? Is YouTube good? Is Tinder good? Is Uber good? Is Amazon good? Is Airbnb good? Is Dropbox good? Is Chewy.com, the only shopping site designed specifically for your furry friend, good? Is Wikipedia good?

These are of course Internet-themed questions.

We could ask questions related to other themes too, but there are people more suited to doing that.

Among those technologies listed, some are obviously bad (to me), but some are much tougher to categorize (Airbnb, Dropbox, Chewy.com, and potentially Wikipedia).

For now, I’d probably have to dedicate a lot of time thinking about each one individually, but I’d like to have a framework for analyzing the benefit of these creations to society.

It’s probably the case that some are innocuous. Dropbox is mostly innocuous save for its impact on the physical storage industry and privacy concerns. Airbnb is probably innocuous too. Innocuous companies can still hurt the businesses they compete with, but their services are useful and their practices not insidious.

This is still an incomplete picture. I would have said Amazon was innocuous when they first started out. But Amazon has obviously had negative effects on society, many of which we don’t understand. What is the impact of excessive and easy consumption on an individual’s psyche? What is the impact of not saying hi to Mike as you checkout from the stationary store you no longer go to?
It’s possible that the fear of doing evil precludes us from ever doing something really great. This sounds like something Elon Musk or Jeff Bezos could have said.

I find myself trying to remove technology from my life. I’m writing this in Microsoft Word instead of in Notion or Evernote. I don’t want fancy things that use AI to analyze what I’m really thinking and anticipate my next idea. I want a cursor in front of me. I want a form with a button. A camera with a real shutter. I don’t know how to reconcile these two pulls in my life. The desire to build technology and my distaste for it.

I want more time to do things that aren't technology. There’s very few things I’m forced to do with technology. Maybe like doing my taxes? I guess using Google and responding to email. Also buying things occasionally. Technology can also be an addiction, a dopamine pump. I could see wanting a way to interact with media in a healthier way. I like movies, books, articles, music, and video essays but find it hard to consume them without getting sucked into something more than I wanted.